I play traditional folk music. Got a lot of friends who do that and I set up, I was the chairman of
the Fishguard Folk Music Club for many years, 20 years, and part of that was setting up a folk
music festival which we've had in Fishguard usually the last weekend of May and that folk music
festival attracts a lot of people, a lot of Irish people, because lots of the music in this area is
or sounds very Irish. If you look at the telephone directory in Fishguard you'll find an
awful lot of Irish names, so there's been a big interchange with people back and forth. Long before
the ferry was here, because this was one of the old medieval routes across to Ireland, Fishguard is
one of the few places where you get a safe anchorage on the north coast of Pembrokeshire. It's a good
place to land a boat because the way that the bay is configured means that you can hide a boat in
there and the weather doesn't get you. There's only Fishguard and Newport that you can say
that there's an all-weather anchorage and Newport has difficulties with the tide. It's not possible
to get into Newport Harbour or up the river into Newport when the tide is low, so Fishguard is
always a good bet. If you came around St David's Head anyone coming into Wales from the south
west would probably hit Fishguard first. So it made its money from being a port that you get to
quite easily off the main trade routes. That's why it was quite affluent. You've got a lot of
Georgian houses, you've got a lot of what looked like affluent houses for their time. Not so affluent
these days. But the fact was certainly back in Georgian times it was an affluent place.